
			 How to install USE
			 ==================
			
1. Requirements
---------------

USE is implemented in Java(tm). Therefore, it should run on any
platform on which a Java runtime system (e.g. the Sun JDK) is
available. So far this has been tested mainly on Unix-like platforms
(Solaris and Linux) but it should work also on Windows. If you're
trying to install USE on any other platform, you are on your own,
although this should not be too difficult.

The distribution of USE comes with full sources. If you want to
compile USE yourself, you will need Sun's Java 2 Development Kit (JDK)
version 1.6.0 or later (see http://java.sun.com) and Apache Ant 1.6.0
or later. Earlier versions of the JDK and ant may work but have not
been tested. For running all tests, you will need some Unix tools like
GNU make, perl, sed, etc. All of them should be available on any
decent Linux distribution.


2. Compilation
--------------

The distribution of USE comes with compiled sources. If you don't
want or need to recompile them, you can skip this step!

Otherwise, a simple "ant build" should compile the whole USE package.

Interaction with USE is done via a command line interface. This will
be much more comfortable if you have the GNU readline library
available on your system. USE provides an interface to the readline
library. For example, it allows bash or emacs-like editing of lines
and keeps a history file of recent input. Since the readline library
is platform dependent, the interface has to be compiled on your
system. Changes to the build file may be necessary for your
environment. The native code has been tested with gcc-2.95.2 and
gcc3. If you don't have the readline library - don't worry. USE will
fall back to a simple input mechanism if it cannot find or load the
readline library at runtime.

You can optionally do some tests by running "ant test'. This will run
various unit tests and calls USE to compile the specifications in the
example and test directory. There should be no error output.


3. Basic Installation
---------------------

There are no additional libraries required. You should only make sure
that the "java" program is in your program search path.


4. Running USE
--------------

The easiest way to start USE, is to use the shell script supplied with
this distribution (there is also a file use.bat for Windows). To use
this wrapper script, add the bin directory to your PATH environment
variable. Entering

	use -h

will give you a list of command line options. Also, look at the file
use.properties in the etc directory to see if you have to adapt some
settings to your environment. See the file README for a quick tour
that will help you getting started.
